# Run Terraform Apply

This action runs Terraform Apply based on the plan files generated by the `terraform-plan` action.

The action assumes you have a properly configured backend and runs `terraform init` before any other actions.

The action depends on the `terraform-plan` action to generate the plan files, the names of which are deterministically generated from the `environment` input and workflow `run_id.` Github does not provide a good way to "skip" steps within a matrix operation, so we check for the existence of each plan file for each environment (we only upload plans with changes). If the plan file does not exist, the apply step is short-circuited and registers "success" without doing anything. If it does exist, the plan is applied.

**Note:** Terraform providers generally handle authentication themselves, so there is no need to use specialized steps like the `azure/login` action, as we do with other actions that interact directly with third-party services. This difference, however, still requires us to pass secret values to the action. For the `azurerm` provider, we authenticate using a service principal. A such, you will need to pass along the SP's credentials in the form of environment variables to the Terraform action. See the [`azurerm`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret) docs for more info.

This is probably what you'll need:

```yaml
---
env:
  ARM_CLIENT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
  ARM_CLIENT_SECRET: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET }}
  ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
  ARM_TENANT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}
```

See the [action.yml](./action.yml) file for parameter info.

## Example usage

The following minimal example will run this action against the `./environments/terraformenvironment` subdirectory, using the `tfplan-development-123456` plan artifact:

```yaml
uses: ObamaFoundation/actions/terraform-plan@X.Y.Z
with:
  environment: "terraformenvironment"
  artifact_id: "tfplan-development-123456"
```

With the defaults:

```yaml
uses: ObamaFoundation/actions/terraform-plan@X.Y.Z
with:
  environment: "myterraformfolder" #(required)
  artifact_id: "tfplan-development-123456": false #(required)
  environments_dir: 'environments' #(default)
```
